Know at this point you may be thinking Andrew why are you teaching me about this engine optimization
it seems like some really nitty gritty stuff that I don't really need to know about.
And for the most part that is true most of the time tail call optimizations are going to happen behind
the scenes and it's not something you really need to think about unless you're trying to optimize a
function unless you're using maybe for example a recursive function.
In the case of a recursive function tail call optimizations are going to make a huge difference in performance.
So if you are using recursive functions it is definitely a time to think about tail call optimizations.
So what I've done here is created a function that makes a factorial essentially.
Now we've talked about these before recursive functions.
So in this first case right here you can see all it does is it takes one parameter and or one argument
I should say it's one parameter.
It checks to see if it is less than or equal to 1.
And if it is it'll return which in this case will Hoppus out of the function or else it'll take the
number that's passed in and multiply it by the number minus one every single time.
And it'll continue to do this in a loop.
Now as of right now this is not optimized and it kind of violates Where is it.
This second rule right here the function making the tail call has no further work to do after the till
CALL returns.
Now this is a recursive function.
So in other words the call stack could get really really big especially if the number right here is
really big to the point where it might even create stack overflow.
So what I've done in the second version of the factorial function right here is I created a default
parameter so in this case what it'll do is it'll take the results of the multiplication and store in
this result right here this variable and that will get passed in as the argument every single time this
function is invoked until it finally finishes executing.
So as you can see instead of doing the multiplication right here we created this default parameter right
here to keep track of the results so that way it'll store the results of the previous multiplication.
Store that in a variable.
And so we've really moved the work outside of the return statement.
Thus a tail call optimization can take place and with something like a recursive function this will
make a huge difference in performance and really help make our code a lot faster.
So with that being said that's pretty much it per function.
So let's go ahead and move on.